This is Bibase, a project I started in 1999, before I could actually write
Perl.  The current project is actually to update the sources to current Perl
programming standards and afterwards to add functionality for BibLaTeX, the
most up to date way to create bibliographies in LaTeX.


|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Welcome to Bibase - the bibliographic database for LaTeX. |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|


What is Bibase?

Bibase (pronounced Bib-ace - short for bibliography database) is a program 
that enables one to maintain a database of your journal articles, books, theses, 
and other types of document in a form readily accessible and readible by BibTeX, 
a package for formatting bibliographies in LaTeX typeset documents.  One only 
needs to enter the information into Bibase and it automatically puts the 
information into BibTeX's .bib file format.


Who should use Bibase?

Anyone who wants to make writing BibTeX .bib files easier and/or anyone who 
wants to keep track of all of their papers and such like in an easy to use 
package.


What versions of Bibase exist?

I have sort of three packages floating around for each of the Text 
Interface (TI) and Graphical User Interface (GUI) versions.  The two types 
of interface are split up as follows:

Macintosh: a stand alone binary (plus other helpful stuff once I get around 
to it)

Unix: a .tar.gz file with the source code and (soon) a Bourne shell script 
that helps install it and get it going (plus helpful stuff).  To install 
the unix version read the INSTALL file included in the distribution.

Source: a .sit.hqx file for macs, a .tar.gz file for unix and a .zip file 
for pcs

PC: sorry, I don't have a pc, and hence no perl or python distribution to 
be agle to get a package here.  Unfortunately, you will have to download 
the source and try to get it going.  You will need a perl distribution for 
the TI version and a python distribution with Tkinter for the GUI version.


Do I have to pay for Bibase?

No.  In fact, if you are reading this, then you have a fully functional 
version floating around somewhere.  Bibase is, however, postcardware.


What is postcardware?

Postcardware is something not heard of much anymore, but it used to be used a 
bit in the early 90's.  What it entails is this:  for the use of the 
software (which you now have) instead of me asking you for some kind of 
fee, all I ask is that you send me a postcard of where you are from.  This 
could be from where you were born, where you live now (if that is a 
different place), or where you currently happen to be.  Just send the 
postcard to:

Paul Cochrane
Physics Department
University of Queensland
St. Lucia
QLD 4072
AUSTRALIA


Does Bibase have a homepage?

The homepage of Bibase is currently at 

http://www.physics.uq.edu.au/people/cochrane/bibase/bibase.html

you can get updates of the latest versions as they are written from here 
and any other information as well.


Is Bibase documented?

Yes, but only slightly at this stage.  A proper version won't be out for a 
while, but should be out sometime soon.  When the docs do come out, they 
will be put onto the web page above.



Paul Cochrane
30/9/99
